 MinMax Scaler- bring the data within the given range, usually of 0 to 1

The train_test_split() -method is used to split our data into train and test set
20% test 80% train data.

recnstruction error- The difference between the original input 
and the reconstruction output in the autoencoder 

that deep learning-based reconstruction methods improve the quality of reconstructed images

anaolmy score-this score indicate how ananolmous data pt are
cal diff  between actual predicted 0-100
TECHNIQUE
SVM-SVMs can be used for anomaly detection by training on normal data only.

AUTOENCODER-Anomalies can be detected by comparing the input and output of the autoencoder. If the reconstruction error
 is high, it indicates the presence of an anomaly

ANOMALY-identify patterns or data points that deviate significantly from the norm or expected behavior..

ECG-This dataset contains the ECG readings of heart patients

Novelty detection is when you have new data (i.e. OOD) and you want to know whether or not it is in-distribution. 
you trained on. Anomaly detection is when you test your data to see if it is different than what you trained the model
-identifying new or unseen patterns in the data that differ from the patterns seen during training. 

DROPOUT random nodes are drop out

DENSE LAYER-
A dense layer is a classic fully connected neural network layer : each neuron receive ip from previous node

RELU -A rectified linear unit (ReLU) is an activation function that introduces the property of non-linearity value betn 0 and 1

MSE-Computes the mean of squares of errors between labels and predictions.
KEARAS OPTIMIZER-sgd adam,
bce-calculate the cross-entropy loss between the predicted classes and the true classes
.
BINARYLABERIZER-accept categorical data and return numpy arr
classifcation report-compute accuracy of model base on value of confusion matrix


Why use Labelbinarizer?
Label Binarizer, a utility class provided by the scikit-learn library, is a powerful tool used to convert categorical labels into binary vectors

sgd- it computes the gradient of a random subset of the data at each iteration

encoder-convert ip into reprentation 

decoder-reconstruct ip form code bav=ck into original dimention